(upbeat music)
Next on the list is a very scary word called
Coercion and it's actually pretty simple to understand.
So we've got a lot going on in our console here.
Let's just console dot clear, just get rid of that
and now I see that our console is clear.
So if I have a bang operator,
we've already look at that as not,
like if we have a variable called isCool
and we set that to true,
and want to check if the person is not cool,
you might think like, okay we have a
if isCool and then we have to open our block up
and then we actually want the else to say
console.log you are not cool.
So if you have a situation where you're only ever using
the else, it's because you want the opposite of a value
and we've learned that we can simply just
put that in the if, get rid of the else,
and then put a bang in front of a Boolean.
A bang in front of a Boolean will always flip it
to the other side of the Boolean.
So if we have isCool, and we have bang isCool,
then that is going to be false.
So the bang operator is for is not, is the opposite, right?
Now the bang operator also does one little cool thing
which is coercion.
And coercion is when we force something
that is of a different type, like a string or a number,
or an object or anything like that,
when we take that and we coerce it into a true Boolean.
So what you can do is if we have a string of,
let's say we have a const name is equal to Wes.
Name is already declared.
Of course, so we already have a name
and if wanna check if there is no name,
we put a bang in front of it.
And you'll notice that that then took it
from a string to a Boolean.
So by putting it a bang in front of it,
it will coerce it into a true Boolean.
Now that's sort of the opposite
because if we wanna check if there is a name
and if we wanna take the fact that there is a name
and make it into a true Boolean,
we can put double bang in front of it.
And what that will do is it will coerce it
into the simple existence into a Boolean
of if it exists or not.
Similarly if we have a const last is equal to
just a string,
oh I already have a last variable as well.
Okay, const middle is equal to an empty string.
We can then take the middle variable and put
a bang in front of it and that will give us the opposite,
which is true and bang bang will give us false.
So if you ever see this bang and bang bang being used
in If statements, it's because somebody is taking
the fact that you have a truthy or falsy value
and you are coercing it into a true Boolean.
So all of the truthy and falsy values
that we said before, you can coerce them
into true true and falses,
by putting a double bang in front if it.
And a single bang will give you
the opposite of what they are.
So that's there.
I used to use this quite a bit,
however now that I really understand truthy and falsy,
it's not something that I use all that often anymore,
and you probably won't see me coercing anything
because I understand how truthy and falsy are used.
So, put that in your pocket.
You might use it, you might not, but it's good to know
coercion is changing a type that is not a Boolean
into a Boolean.
Or I guess coercion in general is you're just changing
one type into another.
Similarly how we can change numbers that are strings
into true numbers.
Next up we have a word that is very hard for me to say,
and it's ternary, ternary.
I don't know why I always look at it, and I'm like
it says Terner-erary, ternerary.
But it's ternary and ternary is what I like to think of as
a shorthand If statement.
They're helpful when you wanna quickly assign
a run functionality based on something being true or false.
So a ternary needs three things.
First it needs a condition, then it needs
what to do if it's true,
and what to do if it's false.
So let's imagine some code right here.
Ternary, ternary, I don't even know if I'm saying it right.
So count is equal to two, and then we have
a word variable here, and we'll say if
the count is equal to one,
then the word is going to be equal to item, and then
otherwise the word is going to be equal to items.
Right, so if we wanna have a sentence on here
that says you have how many items in your cart,
we could do something like this, const sentence
is equal to,
you have count
and then the word in your cart.
Console.log sentence,
and you have two items in your cart.
One item, you have one item.
Zero, you have zero items.
That's a pretty common thing that you do.
Same with comments, zero comments,
one comment, two comments.
Even, I have learned in different languages
that is a big different where different numbers
will give different words and there's actually
an entire international API for working with that.
I'm not gonna go into that now,
but just kind of interesting there.
This whole if statement is a bit verbose.
You have to create an empty variable
and then update that variable, so what you can do
is if it's a simple if-else, for something like this,
what you can do is you can turn it into a shorthand
if statement with something called a ternary.
So we'll do that, we'll comment this out
because we don't actually need it.
And we can go down here and say,
const word is equal to, now we do three things.
I said we need our condition, one condition.
Two, we need what to do if true.
And then we need what to do if false for the third thing.
And that works like this.
We say, count is equal to one, question mark,
and we can return a item,
otherwise we will give items.
Now let's make sure that works
and let's go back and pull it apart.
Item, there it's working.
So what this does is it puts that if statement
where we have our condition,
remember a condition is something
that will be true or false.
Then we have what to return if true
and then we have what to return if false.
And that is very helpful in a lot of use cases
where you just need to do a quick if or else.
And you could even take that a little further and do it
directly inside of the sentence where you could
do something like this.
We could just hard code item, and then we could run
some JavaScript with these curly brackets here,
and we'll say if the count is equal to one,
then we'll do nothing, empty.
Otherwise we will give ourselves an s.
In that case, we're just saying if the count is equal to one
do nothing, otherwise return an s and that works
exactly the same, let's change that to a larger number.
You have 5,000 items in your cart.
We can also use these for running functions.
So if you have a variable like isAdmin,
and that's equal to true or false,
we can just run a function based on if we have it or not.
So we say isAdmin question mark.
If that is true, then we can run a function
like showAdminBar, and I will have to make that function.
Function showAdminBar
and we won't do anything in there for now
but you can see that that is a function.
Otherwise we will do nothing.
How do you do nothing?
Well you could just type in null there.
That tends to be what most people do is,
you could put any empty string, you could put anything...
And there's no downside to putting there
because it's not returning,
it's not saving that variable anywhere.
It's just checking if it's true.
If it's true, it will run a function
and if it's false, it will do nothing.
And when that is run, maybe we should put something in here.
Console.log showing admin bar, there you go.
And if that was false,
nothing will run.
It's important to note that this always has to be here.
Many times I've wanted to just leave that off,
like that, that'd be nice, right?
If it's true then do this, right?
But it will break because that is not the syntax,
so you must always have the false case.
There is one little trick you can do,
and maybe you're screaming at me right now,
you're like Wes, use the and and trick.
So, let me show you the and and trick.
So the kind of cool thing about chaining stuff in conditions
is that it will check along the way to make sure
that things are true.
So let's make a function here called check one.
Then we will return true and let's give ourselves
another function called check two.
And let's give ourselves a third function
called check three.
Now if you want to make sure that all three
of these things are true before we go ahead,
we could run an if statement like this we say
if check one
and check two
and check three,
if all three of those functions return true,
then we will console.log all checks passed.
Okay, go in here, it says all checks passed.
Now what's cool about that is if we can go back into these
and inside of each function console.log running check
and one two x, so running check one, running check two,
running check three.
Now what we'll see is,
running check one, two and three, right?
Those will be run.
This one goes first, that one goes second,
and this one goes third.
Now if we put an else on here,
console.log some checks failed,
and if we make one of these check fail, like this one,
watch what's gonna happen.
Running check one, running check two, some checks failed.
Did this third check never run?
And that is yes, it didn't run because
if you run a condition, the JavaScript will
first check the first one and if that's true,
it'll say good let's go to the next one.
And then it will go on to the next one and say,
huh that's good, and go on to the next one.
But if it at any point, one of these is a false,
remember we talked about poisoning the well,
JavaScript will give up and it'll say,
well that one's false, there's no reason in my mind
that would make sense to keep checking the rest
of the conditions because we already know that
this first one is false.
So because of that, I'm just gonna return this condition
as false and the third check will never run
and it will immediately go to the else.
That's what is sometimes referred to in JavaScript
as short circuiting, meaning that we never finished
what we wanted but we knew that it wasn't gonna
work out anyway, so we short circuited it and
it went directly to else.
Now, so the way that that works can be abused or used.
Some people hate this, some people love it.
I personally, I like it,
and it can look at little bit like this.
We go back to our isAdmin variable where we previously did
showAdminBar and then we had to put this null here
just cause that's how it works.
Well we can abuse this and say isAdmin
and and showAdminBar.
And what will happen is JavaScript will say,
whoa, this is a little condition, so we're gonna check
if this is true and if it is true,
we'll go ahead and do the next one.
And if it is false, it won't actually run this one.
So this is abusing the condition chaining
meaning that if this is ever false, that will never run.
So let's see it now.
Gonna console.log out that other showAdminBar right here.
And now we see showAdminBar, but if isAdmin would be false,
watch how showAdminBar is never run, right?
So that's a little bit of abuse there in JavaScript
but I personally like it.
You do see that in React a lot where someone
will look like is...
Because we don't have, it's a little bit hard to do
if statements in React, so you have something like
isAdmin and and you could like, AdminBar,
like a component in React, and that is a pretty common thing
that you're gonna be seeing.
And that is abusing or using the condition,
which will short-circuit.
Next up we have blockless if statements.
So if something is on the same line,
you don't actually need the block of the statement.
So let's go to this one again.
We could say if isAdmin, open up our block,
and then we say showAdminBar, right?
But because that is on multiple lines,
we need these curly brackets, which are blocks.
However, if you put it all on one line, then you can
very easily do it without putting
the curly brackets in there.
As soon as it goes on to another line, that is broken,
because that is considered an if statement
and this is just considered a regular line
in JavaScript.
So, should you do that?
And you need to do some soul searching,
whether you like that or not.
Do I use it?
Usually not, but I certainly have in the past,
because it's nice to have a quick little one-liner
but I think in most cases, I'll just put
a set of curly brackets in there
just so I can sleep a little bit better at night,
knowing that if some other dev, not me of course
cause I know how JavaScript works.
But some other goofy dev comes along
and puts it on its own line,
they think they're just reformatting it,
then it breaks, so throwing in a set of curly brackets there
is maybe good practice.
That's up to you, that's up to your style choices
in how you like to author JavaScript.
That's enough for this video.
The next one we're gonna go a little bit more
into switch statements as well as looking
at timers and intervals.